Build a robot! - part 2
OK, so we're finally here
where we are going to build a simple robot together.
Let's open the UiPath Studio application, go to "start" and open a new "process" project. And let's call
it "cryptobot".
All right, so we have a blank project and we want to build a robot, but the first thing that we want
to do is to check that we have the "Excel package" installed so that Excel activities are available.
So I therefore need you to go to the ribbon and to "manage packages".
Click here and search for "Excel".
If it's not installed, you have to install it, if it should be updated, you can update it.
And like me, it's all up to date and ready.
So let's go back to our workflow.
I will just open the main workflow and to start finding the different activities for our process, we
need a sequence where we can put our activities.
So if you go to activities, you'll see a sequence here or you can search for it.
And when you find it, just double-click it so that it's added to our workflow.
And then I guess we all remember what we aim to do.
So we're going to open the browser, navigate to coinmarketcap.com, scrape the 20 largest cryptocurrencies
data, and then we're going to save this data in a .CSV and an .XLSX file.
The first activity we would need is to open a browser.
And luckily there is an activity exactly for that.
If we go here and search for "open browser", we should find it. And we can just drag-and-drop it into
our sequence.
And as you already know, the properties for the activity will be available here in the properties panel.
And here we need to choose the browser type and we'll set it to "Chrome".
And we also see that we want a new Chrome session, and that's set by default,
so that's OK too.
How do we use the activity?
Well, as it states here, we need to insert our URL?
So I will just put "coinmarketcap.com" here and now see that there are some validation errors
here.
And that's because I didn't put the URL in quotation marks.
Now it's all good! So let's just test that the robot is able to open the browser now at
coinmarketcap.com and we just press the "run file" button here and let's see what happens.
And as you can see, there was a browser window opened.
And it was open at the correct site. So now we've completed the first step - and actually also the second
step. Then, we want to scrape the data from coinmarketcap.com.
And as you might remember, we have the data scraping wizard here in the ribbon.
So if I click "data scraping", a dialog box will open.
We're just going to follow the instructions here.
Open your browser application or document and navigate to where you want to extract data from, and
we already have the browser open, so that should be easy.
Then press next in this dialog and hoover the mouse cursor over a data source field and I'm just going
to hoover my mouse over here in the left-uppermost corner of the data table.
"You selected a table cell, would you like to extract data from the whole table".
Yes.
And then we'll get a preview of the data from UiPath.
And here we can see that UiPath scraped the 100 first results.
But as you know, we only want the 20 largest cryptocurrencies,
so we're just going to change this number down here from a 100 to 20.
And once we've done that, we just click "finish".
Then UiPath ask us if the data is spanning multiple pages and we know it doesn't because we only
need the 20 largest, but if it did and we wanted to scrape all the cryptocurrency data on this site,
we could push "yes" and we could show UiPath where to click to get the extended list.
So I will just go "no".
And then we're back in Studio.
What we would need to do now is to click the "extract structured data table" activity within the attach browser
container.
Once I click this, you will see over here at the properties panel that the data table or output is
called "ExtractDataTable".
If we go down to the control bar and have a look at the variables, we can also see it is here.
And what we need to do with this variable is to change the scope from "data scraping" to the whole project,
or "sequence", and the reason for doing that is when the scope was set to data scraping,
it's only valid for the activities within the window. Once we've now changed the scope to the sequence,
that makes it easier for us to save it later in the .CSV and Excel workbook file.
So now the data scraping is done and I will just collapse these windows so it all looks a little bit
neater.
Next, we want to save the file as a .CSV and .XLSX file, there are, of course, activities
to do that.
So if we just go to our activities search bar again and search for "write csv", we will find our activity.
Again
I will just drag-and-drop it to our sequence.
And then we got a few options here.
First we're asked to provide the file path. Here, we will simply type "cryptodata.csv"
"cryptodata.csv"
And then we're asked, what data table are we going to write to the .CSV file?
Well, if we remember the name of our variable, it's the "ExtractDataTable" that we want to save.
So we're just going to start typing "Extract", and we'll see our variable pop-up here so we can double-
click it or we could click "tab" on our keyboard and then we're done with the activity. By default
the file path will be wherever you've saved your automation project.
So that's where the cryptodata.csv file will be stored.
And now we want to do the same with the Excel workbook file.
So we need to go to the activities search bar again.
And this time we can write "write range".
As you can see, we have two different activities, but we're going to choose the one under > system > file
> workbook.
So we just drag-and-drop it to our sequence and then the same procedure again.
So in the workbook path we write "cryptodata.xlsx".
Then we're asked, where do we want to write the data?
Well, we want to write it in "Sheet1" and we're going to start it with cell "A1".
And again, we just search for our "ExtractDataTable" variable.
Now, I just want to show you my project folder located at > documents > UiPath > Cryptobot, and
as you can see, there are no files here now.
But once we run our robot, our cryptodata files will be stored here in the project folder.
OK, so let's try to run the robot and see if it actually manages to scrape the data and save it to
the different files and store in the project folder.
So it opens a new browser, a new session, and scrapes the data, and now it should be saved.
And as you can see, when I open my cryptobot-project folder, there are now two files here.
And if I just open the Excel workbook file, let's just have a look if the data is here and yes, it
is.
So now we managed to do everything we wanted to do; open the browser, get the data and save it to two
different file formats.
Did you manage to do this?
And if you did so, you've actually built your first software robot!
That's pretty cool, isn't it?
Congratulations!
I've added the project file to this courses downloadable resources so that you may have a look at my
solution.
And if you remember from the last lesson, there were two more activities in the solution we went through
in the former lesson. We closed the browser once the data had been scraped,
and we also had a message box popping up at the end of the execution just to tell us that the process
went successfully.
So if you like, you can try to implement those activities into your workflow now.
And if you want to further challenge yourself, try to see if you manage to send the two files as an email
attachment using UiPath Email Activities and your preferred email client.
You may also experiment with cleaning the data table before writing it to the .CSV or the Excel workbook file,
for example, by removing empty columns. Section summary:
In this section of the course, we got to know the UiPath platform, we have installed and got to know
the UiPath Studio developer application,
and we've built a simple robot together that extracts data from a website and saves it in different
file formats on the computer.
And I'm sure that if you look at some of your tasks at your workplace, you see that you often go
somewhere, you get some data and you do something about it.
Maybe there is a chance a robot can do that for you now and in the future?
You now know how to build an actual robot using one of the most widely used RPA platforms.
Congratulations!
That is a huge step towards fully understanding RPA.
And for those of you that are extra interested in learning more about RPA development, please check
out the "Further learning" lesson in section five of this course.
In the next section of this course, we'll have a look at a basic plan for piloting and implementing
RPA in your enterprise.
So stay tuned.